# image-similarity-identification
Checking Image Similarity and Identifying Same but Transformed Images based on Different Algorithms.

-Added algorithms, as of now:
    i. Structural Similarity Index Measure (SSIM)
    ii. Oriented FAST and Rotated BRIEF (ORB)
    iii. Mean Squared Error (MSE)
- Added Algorithm selection as Lambda (with ORB as default)
- Option to rotate images (90, 180 & 270) for comparison
- Optional best mathced Images copying from Target Mathcing folder in <target_matching_folder>/target_matched folder
- asyncio with await for Image Copying
- Saving result as CSV with timestamp in the name
- Option to crop images from the center before comparison
- Save results of the comparison to a CSV file
- Command line args for Original Folder, Target Matching Folder, Selection of Algorithm, Crop Percentage, Image Copying with Original Files Name and  Result Saving
- PEP 257 Docstrings for Methods


Tested on Fish-eye Images taken by Mavic Air 3 against Undistorted versions of same Images generated by DJI Terra (that for some reason changes image names)

Steps to run (Tested on Python 3.8+):
```
conda create --name img_similarity
conda activate -img_similarity

pip install -r requirements.txt

python app.py --original_folder <path_to_original_folder> --target_matching_folder <path_to_target_matching_folder> [--is_rotation] [--method <orb|ssim|mse>] [--crop_percentage <percentage>] [--save_result]

```

Command Line Arguments
--original_folder: Path to the original folder containing images.
--target_matching_folder: Path to the target matching folder containing images.
--is_rotation: (Optional) Flag to apply rotation comparison.
--method: (Optional) Similarity calculation method to use. Choices are "orb", "ssim", or "mse". Default is "orb".
--copy_images (Optional) Enable copying of best match images
--crop_percentage: (Optional) Crop images from the center by a percentage (default is 100%, which means no crop).
--save_result: (Optional) Flag to save the comparison results to a CSV file.
To Do
Adding threshold option for selecting and copying as best matched image.

License
This project is licensed under the MIT License. See the LICENSE file for details.

